how would you help high achieving people
like pre-meds pre-law pre farm who
struggle with self-worth is a certain
meditation you would describe I got
drunk with a lot of pre meds that we
could go and they were telling these
stories of therapy drugs with not
success they were happy with they were
struggling with their issues okay so
here's the thing so a lot of times so I
had a buddy who went to Harvard Law
School and I asked him like after his
first semester at Harvard Law School
like how he was enjoying it and he
actually said like it's kind of crappy
and I said like what makes what makes
Harvard Law School so crappy and he's
like one of the work like the people are
just awful and I said what do you mean
the people are awful and he says one of
the worst things you can do to someone
who has always been the best in their
class is to make them feel average and
so what happens with a lot of these high
achieving people is that they're used to
being high achieving like in middle
school they had straight A's in high
school they had very good GPAs and so
they end up in in like a competitive
college right you go to like an Ivy
League school or something like that and
you're with a bunch of other pre-meds
and then suddenly you have this identity
built on being smart and smarter than
everyone else and suddenly you're
[ __ ] average and the funny thing is
the more high achieving you are the
worse the problem becomes because I want
you guys to envision someone who ends up
at Harvard Medical School so not only
were they've at the top of their class
in middle school and then in high school
and then in college when they went to
their Ivy League university and then
when they wind up because you you rise
higher and higher and higher and you're
always the best and then you end up in a
place like HMS and then suddenly your
[ __ ] average so you've been used to
not being average for even longer and
it's becoming even no greater part of
your identity so the biggest problems
you see in self-worth or with the people
who are the highest achieving the higher
achievement goes the bigger the problem
is with self-worth it's that simple
right
that's simple so what do you do about it
well that's a great question so I think
the best thing to do a couple of things
one is to understand that a lot of
people's identity is based on comparison
so your sense of self worth is in
reflection to the people around you that
needs to change you need to start to
have an identity that's based on
yourself in isolation not in relation to
someone else and if you think about
people who are like falling behind right
so a lot of people that I work with a
lot of people on Twitch gamers things
like that are upset because they're
behind so like I remember when I start I
started medical school at the age of 27
which means that the people that I
entered school with who were pre-med
like when we were twenty I had a group
of people who were pre-med right my
friends from pre-med classes and then at
22 they graduated from college and they
go to medical school and they finish
medical school at 26 so I remember when
I was 26 years old and they were moving
on Ravis residency and graduating they
would ask me hey man what are you up to
nowadays and when they're graduating
from medical school I would say I'm
applying to medical school I didn't even
tell them that because that's [ __ ]
it's so shaming six years ago we were in
the same shoes and now I'm still
applying to the school that you are
graduating from that's the comparative
mindset and then you feel shame right
and so you just got to stop comparing
yourself there meditation techniques
around that will do that today okay yeah
so then then
the second part of this question is that
they were telling me stories of therapy
drugs etc that we're not succeeding yeah
because like a drug is not gonna fix
that you guys get that like if you're
used to being the smartest kid in the
room and that's what your identity has
been based on since you were the age of
10 and suddenly at the age of 22 the
entire person that you are gets called
into question because your average a
medication is not going to fix that it's
just not going to fix it so like a
medication can help with some of the
symptoms of that but it's not gonna fix
it
so what you've got to do is give people
a sense of worth or a sense of identity
that is based on themselves as opposed
to not on comparison and if you could do
that they're gonna be fine